## Heinrich Schliemann, worked on the excavation of Troy from 1870-1890.

Heinrich Schliemann was born in Germany into the family of an impoverished pastor. His energy, industriousness and an extraordinary aptitude for foreign languages enabled the young man to make a good career in a trading firm. He then carried on successful commercial activities in various countries, including Russia. Thanks to his business prowess, Schliemann gained financial independence and subsequently conducted excavations, published books and staged exhibitions with his funds.

His particular passion was travelling, which enabled him both to satisfy his entrepreneurial interests and to visit many places of interest. In 1864-1865 Schliemann travelled around the world and visited Africa, India, China, Japan and North and South America. 
Heinrich Schliemann turned to academia in 1866, becoming a student at the University of Paris. In 1868 he published "Ithaca, Peloponnese and Troy. Archaeological Investigations" ("Ithaka der Peloponnes und Troja: Archäologische Forschungen"), based on his travel notes about a trip to Greece. In 1869, the scientific council of the University of Rostock awarded him a doctorate.

Schliemann became famous for his archaeological research on Hissarlik Hill, where the legendary Troy was believed to have been situated. The research took place in 1870 - 1873, 1878 - 1879, 1882 - 1884 and 1888 - 1890. In 1874, Schliemann published his famous book "Trojan Antiquities" ("Trojanische Alterthümer"), which had an archaeological atlas. In 1881 he published a major work "Ilios: The City and Country of the Trojans", in 1884 - "Troy. Results of my recent excavations at the fortress of Troja, in the burials of heroes, Bunarbaschi and other places of Troas in 1882" ("Troja: Ergebnisse meiner neuesten Ausgrabungen auf der Baustelle von Troja, in den Heldengraebern, Bunarbaschi und anderen Orten der Troas im Jahre 1882") and posthumously - "Report on the excavations in Troja in 1890" ("Bericht über die Ausgrabungen in Troja im Jahre 1890").

He also worked successfully in Mycenae, Tirynthus and Orchomenus. In 1878, the book "Mycenae: A Narrative of Researches and Riscoveries of Mycenae and Tiryns", in 1881 - "Orchomenes. Orchomenos: Bericht über meine Ausgrabungen im böotischen Orchomenos" ("Report on my excavations in Boeotian Orchomenos"), and in 1886 - "Tirynth. Prehistoric Palace of the Kings of Tirinth. Results of Recent Excavations" ("Tiryns: Der Prähistorische Palast der Könige von Tiryns, Ergebnisse der neuesten Ausgrabungen"). He also attempted research on the island of Crete and Alexandria. Schliemann's work led to the discovery of the Anatolian culture of Troy and the Achaean culture of Mycenaean Greece. 
In the last third of the 19th century, the archaeological method was in its formative stages. Schliemann was one of the pioneers, the founders of field archaeology. It was his work that demonstrated the importance of stratigraphic observation. He was the first to apply several important techniques to archaeological work. Schliemann used photography to document science, engaged surveyors, archaeologists, biologists and chemists, kept a field diary and made sketches, examined and classified common and mass finds, such as fragments of simple pottery, to characterize the layers, and regularly published reports of his excavations in the form of extensive monographs with illustrations.

It is important to note that a national renaissance of Greece was taking place during those years, which was greatly aided by Schliemann's work and his enthusiastic attitude towards the history of this country.
