## Wilhelm Dörpfeld,

worked on the excavation of Troy in 1882–1894

Wilhelm Dörpfeld was born in Germany into the family of a famous teacher. He began his professional career as an architect, graduating from the Berlin Academy of Architecture and taking a job in Friedrich Adler's office.

His career as an archaeologist began in 1877 on the excavations of the famous Olympia sanctuary. Dörpfeld then spent many years working alongside Heinrich Schliemann: from 1882 at Troy, from 1884 to 1885 at Tirinth. It was he who completed the work at Troy in 1893-1894, already after Schliemann's death. Dörpfeld conclusively established that the layer from the time of the Trojan War was the so-called Troy VI. He also distinguished two more layers in Troy - VIII and IX (ancient and Hellenistic-Roman) - and found the continuation of the city in the valley, beyond the wall, which confirmed Schliemann's idea of a "greater Troy" with a citadel. 
In 1885-1890 Dörpfeld worked on the Acropolis of Athens, where he discovered the foundations of a large archaic temple, the Hecatompedon. In 1900-1913 he worked with Alexander Konce in Pergamon, and in 1931 he researched the Athenian Agora and again on the Acropolis.

Wilhelm Dörpfeld developed the stratigraphic method of archaeological research, which is based on a comprehensive study of all finds and architectural remains in a single layer. This method reveals the succession of stages of the archaeological monument. This is the method used by modern archaeologists.

Dörpfeld was a lecturer at the University of Jena and secretary of the German Archaeological Institute in Athens from 1886 to 1912. He co-authored Heinrich Schliemann's book on Tirinthus and also published a number of studies on ancient architecture and archaeology: "The Greek Theatre" ("Das griechische Theater", 1896), "Troja and Ilion" ("Troja und Ilion", 1902), "Ancient Ithaca. On the Homeric Question: Studies and Excavations on the Island of Leukas-Ithaka" ("Alt-Ithaka: Ein Beitrag zur Homer-Frage, Studien und Ausgrabungen aus der insel Leukas-Ithaka", 1927), "Ancient Olympia: data of studies and excavations on its history and ancient Greek art, the oldest sanctuary at Olympia" ("Alt-Olympia: Untersuchungen und Ausgrabungen zur Geschichte des ältesten Heiligtums von Olympia und der älteren griechischen Kunst", 1935), "Ancient Athens and its Agora" ("Alt-Athen und seine Agora", 1937-1939), "My work for the Greek Archaeological Society" ("Meine Tätigkeit für die griechische Archäologische Gesellschaft", 1937) and "Two Pre-Persian Temples under the Parthenon of Pericles, 1937" ("Die beiden vorpersischen Tempel unter dem Parthenon des Perikles").
